
--- PAGE 1 ---
Handling Precautions
for Terminals and Connectors
1
--- PAGE 2 ---
Handling Precautions for Terminals and Connectors
This manual is to describe basic precautions for use of terminals and connectors in the following.
Make use of this manual when wire connection processing is conducted in appliance designing
and harness process.
When there are doubtful points in use, contact JST.
Before using our Terminals and Connectors
● Please contact to our sales representative in advance before considering an adoption or ordering
any of our products, and please review adequately the suitability of "Terminals and Connectors"
with your used equipment. When using our products, a product specification shall be agreed upon
for each other.
●When using any of our products in any other equipment than general electric equipment or electronic
equipment, please contact to our sales representative in advance. It is strongly recommend to use the
"Terminals and Connectors" dedicated for the automotive products and so on.
Examples of general electric equipment or electronic equipment:
Office Automation equipment, Business equipment, Telecommunication equipment, Measuring equipment,
Audio Visual equipment, Home appliance, Factory Automation equipment, Amusement equipment, etc.
Examples of other equipment than the above:
Automotive electrical components, Train control, Medical equipment, Aviation equipment, Electric power,
Disaster prevention equipment, Security systems, and the equipment that requires an extremely high
reliability, such as various safety devices.
●Please contact our sales representative if you are considering to apply to a quality assurance program
that is specified by customer or that is peculiar to the industry.
1. Common Handling Precautions
●JST's terminals and connectors are designed to connect electricity and electrical signal, and not
aimed to be used as structure or a part of structure premising that mechanical force loads to
connection part (contact part) of JST's terminals and connectors.
● JST's terminals and connectors are designed for wiring in electrical appliances or between electrical appliances.
JST's terminals and connectors are designed only for usage of "domestic wiring of electrical appliance"
in Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law.
Appropriate provision is required for electrical appliances so that general person does not touch terminals
and connectors.
● JST's terminals and connectors are designed to aim electrical connection in electrical appliances or
between electrical appliances.
They are not "connection appliance" conformed to Electric Appliance and Material Safety Law, so that
they cannot use for wiring inside building material and cable wiring for indoor and outdoor.
●JST cannot guarantee the performance of our product when used outside the published design specifications.
●Use JST's terminals and connectors within the range of rated value of product specification and
performance specification.
This rated value and performance specification are specified as parts themselves, when using in
actual use, use them after checking to satisfy regulation and design standard about appliances to be used.
2
--- PAGE 3 ---
Handling Precautions for Terminals and Connectors
● JST cannot accept responsibility for the performance of our product when used in combination with
non-JST terminals and connectors.
●Do not expose JST's terminals and connectors, processing process product and processing product
(harness, etc.) to corrosive substance, corrosive gas, high temperature and high humidity and direct
sunshine. It causes corrosion of contact and deterioration of insulation performance of housing, etc.,
so that it causes motion defect of appliances.
● Do not apply external load to JST's terminals and connectors, processing process product and
processing product (harness, etc.). Deformation and breakage, etc. occur, and it causes performance
defect of connector.
●Although the black spot may appear on the resin molded part of connector or the color may differ
slightly from the actual connector, please use this connector because it does not affect the product
performance. The correspondence to special designated and industrial sector-specific demands shall
be separately determined later.
●The product using polyamide material has the characteristic of the large elongation as a resin material,
but its elongation remarkably deteriorates and it becomes weak against mechanical impact, when
using it at a low temperature or in dry condition. Be careful to handle it when conducting the
transportation or the mating operation under a low temperature and a dry condition, because it may
cause the housing crack and breakage of lock.
● When checking circuit of harness with terminals and connectors, handling wire harness, etc. in
assembly of appliances or after wiring is fixed or applying load, due to tensile strength, to joint part of
JST's terminals and connectors, joint part of contact contacting part and wire is damaged and causes of
contact defect. When handling and wiring wire harness, etc., provision such as an appropriate slack to
wire is required in order not to apply abnormal load to joint part of JST's terminals and connectors.
See examples 1 and 2.
Example 1: Wire to Board connectors
Wire length is not sufficient to handle.
Example 2: FFC/FPC connectors
FFC/FPC
Wire length is sufficient to handle.
Force is loaded to FFC/FPC.
FFC/FPC length is not sufficient to handle. FFC/FPC
FFC/FPC length is sufficient to handle.
Force is loaded to FFC/FPC.
Force is loaded to FPC.
FFC/FPC
Forming processing is
conducted to FPC
so as not to load force
to connector.
3
--- PAGE 4 ---
Handling Precautions for Terminals and Connectors
● When disconnectable "terminals and connectors" are connected and disconnected (hereinafter referred to
as "removal work") during maintenance such as harness check, equipment assembly, equipment check
and repair, make sure to conduct such operation in state of holding the body of “terminals and connectors
(housing, etc.)”, in principle.
However, if it is difficult to hold the body of “terminals and connectors” due to the connection and
mounting state of the “terminals and connectors”, while supporting the “terminals and connectors”
with fingers, hold the wires collectively to apply even load, and operate it within 15 degrees as shown
in example 3.
(The value specified in the product specifications or JST handling manual take precedence.)
Removal work beyond specified angle leads to expanding of mating part of contact, and causes of
contact defects.
In addition, removal work that applies a load to only some of wires may cause damage such as
coming off the wire and terminals.
Mating axis
15°
Wire
Connector Insertion Withdrawal
H JST
2 3 4 5
Housing
FFC/FPC
Header
Within 15°
Within 15°
Example 3: In case of wire to board connectors
Connector Insertion Withdrawal
FFC/FPC
Within 15°
Within 15°
15° 15°
Example 4: In case of connectors for FFC/FPC
4
--- PAGE 5 ---
Handling Precautions for Terminals and Connectors
● When electrical continuity of circuit and miss-wiring are checked, do not insert others than the
applicable mating (shrouded header and header, etc.). It leads to deformation of contact, etc., and
causes of contact defect.
●In packaging and storage of processing product of JST's terminals and connectors, do not apply load
by stack, etc. for a long time.
It leads to deformation of JST's terminals and connectors, and causes of performance defect.
2. Precautions for Applicable FPC/FFC of connectors for FPC/FFC
● Dimensions of FPC/FFC greatly affect to the contacting reliability with connector.
Conform the dimensions of FPC/FFC with those of applicable ones described in drawing.
● Especially, narrow pitch connector has a high possibility to come off from contact point due to
warpage, deformation, slant insertion, insufficient insertion and so on of FPC/FFC.
In order to reduce these risks, manage that the important dimensions such as conductor width, length,
pitch, FPC/FFC total width, position misalignment between conductor and FPC/FFC width etc.
shall be satisfied with the given tolerances, considering the variations of those dimensions.
● Confirm the applicability of the connector with the FPC/FFC used, before use.
FPC/FFC, which applicability is not confirmed, might not be able to guarantee the performance.
● Blanking shall be conducted in the direction from conductor side to reinforcing plate side.
When the blanking direction of FPC/FFC is from the reinforcing plate side to the conductor side,
the blanking burrs will be caught between the contact portion of connector and the FPC/FFC conductor
when mating, and it may cause conduction failure.
● Material of reinforcing plate of FPC should be polyimide.
Thermosetting adhesive shall be used.
3. Precautions of Reflow Soldering for SMT type product
●Reflow soldering for SMT type product
As for SMT type product, tenacious heat-resistant resin is used for the material of a wafer. However,
please conduct the reflow soldering evaluation because the reflow soldering quality of SMT type
product is greatly affected by soldering conditions such as the temperature profile, solder paste to be
used, air reflow and nitrogen (N2) reflow.
●Considering handling of SMT type connector in mating operation, tenacious heat-resistant nylon is
used for the material of a wafer. But 'blister' may generate on the outer surface of the wafer during
the process of reflow soldering, depending on the condition of moisture absorption of the wafer and
the condition of reflow soldering. However, because 'blister' is not caused by decomposition of resin,
it does not affect the performances of the connector.
5
--- PAGE 6 ---
Handling Precautions for Terminals and Connectors
4. Handling Precautions for Terminals and Connectors in Electrical Appliances
●JST's terminals and connectors are not designed so that they may disconnect in live electrical circuit.
Do not disconnect JST's terminals and connectors in the live electrical condition in order to prevent
damage and performance defect by spark, etc.
●In case that condensation and water leak occurred on JST's terminals and connectors, there is a risk
that insulation defect may occur between circuits. When it is estimated that condensation and water
leak occur, appropriate countermeasure to prevent waterdrop is required.
●When using JST's terminals and connectors, avoid using to branch and apply electricity more than
rated value to some circuits. Even if electricity per a circuit is set not to exceed rated value on
calculation, electricity per a circuit is not shared equally due to variation of circuit pattern and contact
resistance, so that performance deterioration makes progress by current continuity more than rated
value, and abnormality occurs.
●When connectors are used at parts that wire and printed circuit board with connectors resonate or
mating part (connection part) of connector always moves whenever appliance has rotation structure or
moving part, that causes contact defect by fretting corrosion of contact part.
Appropriate provision such as fixing of wire and printed circuit board in appliances or support of
printed circuit board and suppression of resonation, etc.
●When contact material of JST's terminals and connectors is brass, breakdown and cracking (stress
corrosion cracking) occur in the existence of corrosive gas and moisture (condensation, etc.) of
ammonia and sulfur gas, etc., and that causes of contact defect of connector. When effect of
corrosive gas of ammonia and sulfur gas, etc. aforementioned condition is expected in use place of
terminal, connector and its electrical appliances to use, use copper-alloy material (phosphor bronze
material, etc.) except for brass material as a contact material. Contact JST for products.
● After connector was connected to printed circuit board with solder, when printed circuit board is
stacked on connector, deformation of mating part of connector and adhesion of foreign matter occur,
and that causes of contact defect of connector. Do not stack printed circuit board after connection
with solder.
5. Notes for Wire Connection Processing of Harness Processing, etc.
● When JST's terminals, chain terminals and connectors are crimped or terminated with wire, use tools
specified in JST. If connection is conducted by other tools than the specified one, it causes of contact
defect and breakage. Besides, after checking processing operation condition, etc., process harness.
●As defect control of important control point on wire connection processing of JST's terminals and
connectors such as applicable wires and crimp height, etc. causes contact defect, check control point
before processing.
● As a rule, applicable wires for crimping connector and insulation displacement connector are tin-plated
annealed copper wire (stranded wire). It is necessary to check when using bare copper wire, solid wire,
tin-coated wire and shielding wire. However, wires of terminal and connector specified individually are
decided depending on each specification.
When wire is used in insulation displacement connector, use wire checked in JST.
6
--- PAGE 7 ---
Precautions for Crimping Process
The following instructions describe the procedure to be adopted when crimping terminals or
connectors onto wires. Please read the relevant connector and application tooling "Handling
Manuals" prior to terminating the connector. If you need any further information, please contact
JST.
1. Crimping tools
When JST chain terminals are crimped or terminated with wires, always use application tooling specified
by JST. If this process is conducted using application tooling other than that specified, product defect and
failure may occur. JST cannot accept any liability for failures due to the use of non-JST application
tooling.
2. Applicable wires
Before starting the crimping process, please confirm that the wire to be used is within the range of the
chosen crimping terminal.
As a rule, applicable wires for crimping connector are tin-plated annealed copper stranded
wire. Bare copper wire, solid wire, tin-coated wire, shielded wire and so on are out of range.
However, it is possible to use other wires if they are checked for compatibility with the
chosen crimping terminal.
3. Control Points for Crimping Operation
Please check the following points to ensure that a correctly crimped terminal and wire combination is produced.
3.1 Checking Application Tooling
Read the "Operation/Handling Manuals" which are available for each press and application tool prior to
commencing the crimping operation.
3.2 Stripping Wire Insulation Operation
As the wire stripping length is influenced by wire style, crimping method and so on, please set the proper
stripping length according to processing condition. After setting the correct length depending on the terminal
used, strip the insulation carefully by a wire stripper etc. without any damage to the wire conductors.
L
[Cautions]
(1) Take care to prevent cutting of wire conductors,
uneven stripping length and insufficient cutting
of the insulation.
E A
(2) Ensure the strands do not spray come apart.
[Reference]
Stripping length L=E + A/2 +
The proper value of (3) Do not excessively twist the strands.
is depended on each terminal.
7
--- PAGE 8 ---
Precautions for Crimping Process
3.3 Crimping Height
Crimping height is one of the important quality management items on crimping process.
As crimping terminals without the correct crimp-height is the cause of poor conductivity,
measure the crimp-height at the start, in the middle and at the end of the crimping process.
1) Measuring Method
Measure the crimping height of the crimped terminals with a specified crimp micrometer
(designed by JST) at the center of the wire barrel and at the center of the insulation barrel.
Insulation barrel
Insulation barrel
Measuring points
Wire barrel
Wire barrel
Crimping height
Crimping height
Center
Center
Center
Center
2) Crimping height for wire barrel
Set the crimping height of the wire conductor barrel within the range specified by JST.
3) Crimping height for insulation barrel
Adjust the crimping height of the insulation barrel in relation to the outer diameter of the wire
insulation and wire type. Determine the range of crimping height for insulation barrel so that
it is not crimped excessive nor too loosely.
• Insuﬃcient crimping
• Wire insulation is easily
pulled from the terminal
when applying tension
to the wire.
• Good • Good
• Excessive crimping
• The barrel edges cut
into the wire & damage
the conductors.
Check: Cut off the insulation support and remove the wire insulation, then check the wire
conductors for damage.
Cutting Remove insulation
Check the conductors
for damage
8
--- PAGE 9 ---
Precautions for Crimping Process
3.4 Crimped Appearance
Check crimped appearance visually (using loupe etc.) in order to confirm correct crimping condition.
As the inspection items change with each terminal, an example is shown below.
Check the Handling Manual for each terminal or connector about the specific details to be checked.
Bend up & Bend down
Twist
Check the angle of bend up or bend down at the wire
barrel.
Check the angle of twist at the wire barrel.
Good
Good
Bend up
Twist
Bend down
Twist
Rolling
Uncrimped Conductor
Check the angle of rolling at the wire barrel.
Check that there are no uncrimped conductors at the
wire barrel.
Good
Good
Rolling
Uncrimped
conductor
Rolling
9
--- PAGE 10 ---
Bell-mouth
Check bell-mouth size.
Bell-mouth
Good
No bell-mouth
Too much
bell-mouth
Wire Conductor Protruding Length
Check the conductors are crimped at the correct
position of whole wire barrel.
Conductor
protruding length
Good
Conductors
protrude excessively
Conductors do not
protrude enough
Precautions for Crimping Process
Cut-off Length
Check cut-off length.
Good
Cut-oﬀ length
No cut-oﬀ length
Too much
cut-oﬀ length
Wire Insulation Protruding Position
Check the wire insulation is held by the whole
insulation barrel and crimped at the wire barrel, so
that a "window" of conductor is seen between the wire
and insulation barrel approximately 50/50.
Wire insulation protruding
Position approx. 50/50
Good
Wire insulation is crimped
at the wire barrel.
Wire insulation is incompletely
crimped at the insulation barrel.
10
--- PAGE 11 ---
Precautions for Insulation Displacement Process
The following instructions describe the procedure to be adopted when terminating Insulation
Displacement connectors. Please read the relevant ID connector and application tooling
"Handling Manuals" prior to terminating the connector. If you need any further information,
please contact JST.
1. Insulation Displacement tools
When JST insulation displacement connector (ID connector) are terminated with wires, always use
application tooling specified by JST. If this process is conducted using application tooling other than that
specified, product defect and failure may occur. JST cannot accept any liability for failures due to the use
of incorrect tooling.
2. Applicable wires
Wire to be used for ID connector, please use the wire that is specified by JST.
As applicable wire for ID connector differs in the characteristics of wire insulation by the
manufactures, wire evaluation test shall be carried out by JST, and propriety of wire
applicability shall be determined. Please contact JST about suitability of the wire to be used.
3. Composition and Parts Identification of IDC
Composition and parts identification of ID connector are shown in the below figure.
･ Connector
Wire
Beam
･ Contact
Housing
Contact
Insulation
Displacement Slot
(U slot)
Contacting part
11
--- PAGE 12 ---
Precautions for Insulation Displacement Process
4. Control Points for Insulation Displacement Operation
In order to perform a good insulation displacement connection, please study the following points.
4.1 Insulation Displacement Machine
Handling Manuals are available for each type of JST application tool. Please study the Handling Manual
prior to using the tooling.
<Main Check Points>
1
Hand Press
Correct shut-height
Set connector at the correct position.
No particles of wire insulation on the termination punch.
2
3
Pneumatic Press
Air pressure should be within specified range.
Set connector at the correct position.
No particles of wire insulation on the termination punch
Automatic ID Machine
Each part should move freely.
Connector should be correctly fed at bowl-feeder and straight chute.
Adequate tension should be applied to wire.
Measuring wire length should be correctly set up to specified wire length.
Connector should be set at the correct position.
If a connector with a different number of circuits is to be used, check that any previously
used connectors are removed from track and bowl-feeders.
No particles of wire insulation on the termination punch or wire guide.
4.2 Connector & Wire Size
Each ID connector has been designed for specified the wire size, please ensure that the correct connector
is selected for use with the applicable wire conductor size from Handling Manual etc.
4.3 Termination Depth
A specific termination depth has been developed for each particular wire and connector combination.
Please ensure that the applicable Handling Manual is checked for the particular wire size that is chosen to
be used.
4.3.1 What is Termination Depth
The termination depth is used as a running check during production of the ID harness. This disposes of
the requirement to check the termination depth using destructive methods. Each connector has a u-slot
designed for a specific conductor wire size, therefore providing the wire used is within specification of the
connector, it is only necessary to manage the depth of the wire in the u-slot during production. The true
termination depth is "d" in the figure of next page, i.e. check the position of center of wire conductor from
bottom of U slot. However, as the result of checking the condition of the insulation displacement at U-slot
and measuring wire retention force, we specify termination depth "D" as the checking point during production.
12
--- PAGE 13 ---
Precautions for Insulation Displacement Process
Termination depth
Beam
d
U slot
4.3.2 How to Measure Termination Depth
The termination depth shall be measured in the figure
below at X-X' part, where is in the middle part of two U
slots and a flattened part pressed by termination punch,
immediately after termination operation. If the termination
depth is not measured immediately after the termination
operation, the insulation will try and revert to its original
shape and correct termination depth can not be measured.
4.4 Wire Retention Force
Wire retention force is specified for each combination
between ID connector and wire.
The wire retention force is specified in the applicable
connector Handling Manual.
The terminated wire shall be pulled one by one in the
direction of arrow in the figure below, and wire retention
force shall be measured by a push-pull gauge etc. When
the wire pulls out of the contact, it should be checked that
wire retention force is in compliance with the requirement
for each ID connector.
Parallel
13
Wire
X
X'
D
Housing
U slot
Perpendicular
--- PAGE 14 ---
Precautions for Insulation Displacement Process
4.5 Termination Appearance
Check termination appearance visually (using loupe etc.) in order to confirm correct termination.
As the inspection items change with each ID connector, an example is shown below.
Check the Handling Manual for each ID connector about the specific details to be checked.
Defects or deformation on housing
Defects or deformation on Contact
Check for defects or deformation on housing
Defects or
Check for defects or deformation on contact
Deformation
Defects or
Deformation
Defects or
Deformation
Defects or
Deformation
Exposure of wire conductors around beam of contact
Gap between housing wall and wire tip
(Wire protruding length)
Check that the wire conductors are not exposed
around the beam of contact
Check gap "G" between housing wall and wire tip
G
Wire conductors must
Not be exposed
G = Gap (Wire protruding length)
Overrun of wire
Deviation of ID center
Check for overrun of wire
Check for no deviation of insulation displacement center
Overrun of wire
Deviation of insulation
displacement center
14