PAGE 1
Handling Precaution for Terminal and Connector
This manual is to describe basic precautions for use of terminal and connector in the
following. Make use of this manual when wire connection processing is conducted in
appliance designing and harness process.
When there are doubtful points in use, contact JST.
1. Common Handling Precautions ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
•JST’s terminal and connector are designed to connect electricity and electrical signal, and not aimed to be
used as structure or a part of structure premising that mechanical force loads to connection part (contact
part) of JST’s terminal and connector.
•JST’s terminal and connector are designed for wiring in electrical appliances or between electrical
appliances.
JST’s terminal and connector are designed only for usage of “domestic wiring of electrical appliance” in
Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law.
Appropriate provision is required for electrical appliances so that general person does not touch terminal and
connector.
•JST’s terminal and connector are designed to aim electrical connection in electrical appliances or between
electrical appliances.
They are not “connection appliance” conformed to Electric Appliance and Material Safety Law, so that they
cannot use for wiring inside building material and cable wiring for indoor and outdoor.
•Use JST’s terminal and connector within the range of rated value of product specification and performance
specification.
This rated value and performance specification are specified as parts themselves, when using in actual use,
use them after checking to satisfy regulation and design standard about appliances to be used.
•Do not expose JST’s terminal and connector, processing process product and processing product (harness,
etc.) to corrosive substance, corrosive gas, high temperature and high humidity and direct sunshine. It
causes corrosion of contact and deterioration of insulation performance of housing, etc., so that it causes
motion defect of appliances.
•Do not apply external load to JST’s terminal and connector, processing process product and processing
product (harness, etc.). Deformation and breakage, etc. occur, and it causes performance defect of
connector.
959
PAGE 2
Handling Precaution for Terminal and Connector
•When checking circuit of harness with terminal and connector, handling wire harness, etc. in assembly of
appliances or after wiring is fixed or applying load, due to tensile strength, to joint part of JST’s terminal and
connector, joint part of contact contacting part and wire is damaged and causes of contact defect.
When handling and wiring wire harness, etc., provision such as an appropriate slack to wire is required in
order not to apply abnormal load to joint part of JST’s terminal and connector. See examples 1 and 2.
Example 1: Wire to Board connectors
Wire length is not sufficient to handle.
Wire length is sufficient to handle.
Example 2: FFC/FPC connectors
FFC/FPC
Force is loaded to FFC/FPC.
FFC/FPC length is not sufficient to handle. FFC/FPC length is sufficient to handle.
FFC/FPC
FFC/FPC
Force is loaded to FFC/FPC.
Force is loaded to FPC. Forming processing is conducted to FPC
so as not to load force to connector.
960
PAGE 3
Handling Precaution for Terminal and Connector
•When disconnectable JST’s terminal and connector
is mated and unmated (hereafter referred to as
disconnection operation) in check of harness, etc.,
assembly of appliances and maintenance such as
repair, etc., hold wire in a bundle and operate it
within 15 degrees which is an indicated angle (see
example 3 & 4). As for operation angle specified in
JST product specification or JST handling manual,
the specified one is prior.
Disconnection operation beyond specified angle
leads to expanding of mating part of contact, and
causes of contact defect.
Mating axis
15°
Wire
H JST
2345
Housing
Header
Example 3: In case of wire to board connector
Connector Insertion Withdrawal
FFC/FPC
Within 15°
Within 15°
15° 15°
Example 4:
In case of connectors for FFC/FPC
•When electrical continuity of circuit and miss-wiring are checked, do not insert others than the applicable
mating (shrouded header and header, etc.). It leads to deformation of contact, etc., and causes of contact
defect.
•In packaging and storage of processing product of JST’s terminal and connector, do not apply load by stack,
etc. for a log time.
It leads to deformation of JST’s terminal and connector, and causes of performance defect.
961
PAGE 4
Handling Precaution for Terminal and Connector
2. Handling Precaution for Terminal and Connector in Electrical Appliances –––––––
•JST’s terminal and connector are not designed so that they may disconnect in live electrical circuit. Do not
disconnect JST’s terminal and connector in the live electrical condition in order to prevent damage and
performance defect by spark, etc.
•In case that condensation and water leak occurred on JST’s terminal and connector, there is a risk that
insulation defect may occur between circuits. When it is estimated that condensation and water leak occur,
appropriate countermeasure to prevent waterdrop is required.
•When using JST’s terminal and connector, avoid using to branch and apply electricity more than rated value
to some circuits. Even if electricity per a circuit is set not to exceed rated value on calculation, electricity per
a circuit is not shared equally due to variation of circuit pattern and contact resistance, so that performance
deterioration makes progress by current continuity more than rated value, and abnormality occurs.
•When connectors are used at parts that wire and printed circuit board with connectors resonate or mating
part (connection part) of connector always moves whenever appliance has rotation structure or moving part,
that causes contact defect by fretting corrosion of contact part.
Appropriate provision such as fixing of wire and printed circuit board in appliances or support of printed
circuit board and suppression of resonation, etc.
•When contact material of JST’s terminal and connector is brass, breakdown and cracking (stress corrosion
cracking) occur in the existence of corrosive gas and moisture (condensation, etc.) of ammonia and sulfur
gas, etc., and that causes of contact defect of connector. When effect of corrosive gas of ammonia and
sulfur gas, etc. aforementioned condition is expected in use place of terminal, connector and its electrical
appliances to use, use copper-alloy material (phosphor bronze material, etc.) except for brass material as a
contact material. Contact JST for products.
•After connector was connected to printed circuit board with solder, when printed circuit board is stacked on
connector, deformation of mating part of connector and adhesion of foreign matter occur, and that causes of
contact defect of connector. Do not stack printed circuit board after connection with solder.
3. Note for Wire Connection Processing of Harness Processing, etc. –––––––
•When JST’s terminal, chain terminal and connector are crimped or terminated with wire, use tools specified
in JST. If connection is conducted by other tools than the specified one, it causes of contact defect and
breakage. Besides, after checking processing operation condition, etc., process harness.
•As defect control of important control point on wire connection processing of JST’s terminal and connector
such as applicable wires and crimp height, etc. causes contact defect, check control point before
processing.
•As a rule, applicable wires for crimping connector and insulation displacement connector are tin-plated
annealed copper wire (stranded wire). It is necessary to check when using bare copper wire, solid wire, tin-
coated wire and shielding wire. However, wires of terminal and connector specified individually are decided
depending on each specification.
When wire is used in insulation displacement connector, use wire checked in JST.
962