PAGE 1
Precaution for Crimping Process
The following instructions describe the procedure to be adopted when crimping terminals or
contacts onto wires. Please read the relevant connector and application tooling “Handling
Manuals” prior to terminating the connector. If you need any further information, please
contact JST.
1. Crimping tools –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
When JST chain terminals are crimped or terminated with wires, always use application tooling specified by
JST. If this process is conducted using application tooling other than that specified, product defect and failure
may occur. JST cannot accept any liability for failures due to the use of non-JST application tooling.
2. Applicable wires––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Before starting the crimping process, please confirm that the wire to be used is within the range of the chosen
crimping terminal.
As a rule, applicable wires for crimping connector are tin-plated annealed copper stranded
wire. Bare copper wire, solid wire, tin-coated wire, shielded wire and so on are out of range.
However, it is possible to use other wires if they are checked for compatibility with the
chosen crimping terminal.
3. Control Points for Crimping Operation –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Please check the following points to ensure that a correctly crimped terminal and wire combination is produced.
3.1 Checking Application Tooling
Read the “Operation/Handling Manuals” which are available for each press and application tool prior to
commencing the crimping operation.
3.2 Stripping Wire Insulation Operation
As the wire stripping length is influenced by wire style, crimping method and so on, please set the proper
stripping length according to processing condition. After setting the correct length depending on the terminal
used, strip the insulation carefully by a wire stripper etc. without any damage to the wire conductors.
L
[Cautions]
(1) Take care to prevent cutting of wire conductors,
uneven stripping length and insufficient cutting of
the insulation.
E A
[Reference]
Stripping length L= E + A/2 +
The proper value of (2) Ensure the strands do not spray come apart.
(3) Do not excessively twist the strands.
is depended on each terminal.
963
PAGE 2
Precaution for Crimping Process
3.3 Crimping Height
Crimping height is one of the important quality management items on crimping process.
As crimping terminals without the correct crimp-height is the cause of poor conductivity,
measure the crimp-height at the start, in the middle and at the end of the crimping process.
1) Measuring Method
Measure the crimping height of the crimped terminals with a specified crimp micrometer
(designed by JST) at the center of the wire barrel and at the center of the insulation barrel.
Measuring points
Insulation barrel
Wire barrel
Crimping height
Center
Center
2) Crimping height for wire barrel
Set the crimping height of the wire conductor barrel within the range specified by JST.
3) Crimping height for insulation barrel
Adjust the crimping height of the insulation barrel in relation to the outer diameter of the wire
insulation and wire type. Determine the range of crimping height for insulation barrel so that
it is not crimped excessive nor too loosely.
Check: • Insufficient crimping
• Wire insulation is easily
pulled from the terminal
when applying tension
to the wire.
damage.
• Good• Good
• Excessive crimping
• The barrel edges cut
into the wire & damage
the conductors.
Cut off the insulation support and remove the wire insulation, then check the wire conductors for
Cutting Remove insulation
Check the conductors
for damage
964
PAGE 3
Precaution for Crimping Process
3.4 Crimped Appearance
Check crimped appearance visually (using loupe etc.) in order to confirm correct crimping condition.
As the inspection items change with each terminal, an example is shown below.
Check the Handling Manual for each terminal or connector about the specific details to be checked.
Bend up & Bend down
Check the angle of bend up or bend down at the wire
barrel.
Twist
Check the angle of twist at the wire barrel.
Good
Good
Bend up
Twist
Bend down
Twist
Rolling
Check the angle of rolling at the wire barrel.
Uncrimped Conductor
Check that there are no uncrimped conductors at the
wire barrel.
Good
Good
Rolling
Uncrimped
conductor
Rolling
965
PAGE 4
Precaution for Crimping Process
Bell-mouth
Check bell-mouth size.
Bell-mouth
Good
No bell-mouth
Too much
bell-mouth
Wire Conductor Protruding Length
Check the conductors are crimped at the correct position
of whole wire barrel.
Conductor
protruding length
Good
Conductors
protrude excessively
Conductors do not
protrude enough
966
Cut-off Length
Check cut-off length.
Good
Cut-off length
No cut-off length
Too much
cut-off length
Wire Insulation Protruding Position
Check the wire insulation is held by the whole insulation
barrel and crimped at the wire barrel, so that a “window”
of conductor is seen between the wire and insulation
barrel approximately 50/50.
Wire insulation protruding
Position approx. 50/50
Good
Wire insulation is crimped
at the wire barrel
Wire insulation is incompletely
crimped at the insulation barrel